I remember throughout this project I struggle with a lot of pressure, with whole night no sleep because I lost 
the network equipement configuration's after almost done, and I had to present the project with a short amount of time. But 
it's worth the pain and to be honnest I loved spending whole night no sleep by configuring, troubleshooting, 
I find it awesome!! because I'm a passionnate of this niche.I gain lot of understanding throughout this project



In order to achieved this project I designed it like this:
In the network I implement:

All the basics configurations like: renamed, encryption, SSH etc...

A virtual local area network (VLAN) I used it to segment the network into smaller segments.
It's help me to  improve network security and performance, provide easier management, as well
as ensuring network flexibility. I ordered the Vlans like this : Native VLAN, Voice VLAN, 
Management VLAN, Data VLAN.

Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) I Specifically Rapid spanning tree (RSTP) to help me prevent bridge looping
on LANs that include redundant links. Without RSTP, it would be difficult for me to implement that redundancy
and still avoid network looping.

VLAN Trunking Protocol (VTP) - To simplify the configurations, I configure all the access switches as VTP client and the
switches layer 3 int the middle as VTP Client.

Link Aggregation Control Protocol(LACP) - Even though I'm using only CISCO equipement I did'nt use PAgP for the
etherchannel because if I have to change an equipement other than CISCO. PAGP is a cisco-proprietary protocol and LACP 
is quite the opposite, Defined within IEEE 802.3ad Besides, LACP can support cross-stack, while PAGP does not since
it does not support participating interfaces on different physical switches.For the purpose of load balancing, 
I'm able to balance the traffic load across the links and improves the efficient use of bandwidth.

Port Security to help me secure the network by preventing unknown devices from forwarding packets.
Once a device connected the switch learn his MAC address, if someone put another devices on that specific
port, immediately that specific port will shutdown. I shutdown every unused ports on the switches,
I also used a radius server for the WIFI signal. that's how I secure the network from unknown devices

For the Network redundancy I'm providing multiple paths for traffic, so that data can keep flowing even in the
event of a failure. for me redundancy equals more reliability.

EIGRP - I used on routers and Layer 3 switches to share routes with other routers, I could use 
OSPF but I personnaly love EIGRP for his simplicity and it's a CISCO protocols so!!

For communication Purpose between I use in the simulation VPN with GRE but in real life it's VPN with IPsec with the 
cisco ASA 5525 firewall which I experienced before in real life through the competences fair.

In real life it's dual ISPs I mean failover but because of packet tracer bugs and unvaillable features. in the simulation
for testing purpose I configured with one ISP.

for the simulation purpose I used a server for the IP-camera and configure a Router as a VoIP server. But
in real life it will a server for VoIP rather than a router and for the IP-camera a NVR rather the a server. 

To simplify the IP configuration I used DHCP servers for PCs, Cameras, Servers, Printers etc..
  


